1;Evaluation of toxicity profile of kratom (Mitragyna speciosa Korth) decoction in 
rats,Mitragyna speciosa Korth also known as kratom, is an herbal drug preparation for 
its therapeutic properties and opioid-replacement therapy. Kratom is consumed in 
a brewed decoction form in Malaysia and to date, no studies have characterized 
its chemical and toxicity profile. Thus, this study aims to evaluate kratom 
decoction's safety and toxicity profile after 28 days of treatment. Mitragynine 
content was quantified in kratom decoction and used as a marker to determine the 
concentration. Male and female Sprague Dawley rats were orally treated with 
vehicle or kratom decoction (10, 50 or 150 mg/kg) and two satellite groups were 
treated with vehicle and kratom decoction (150 mg/kg). Blood and organs were 
collected for hematology, biochemical and histopathology analysis at the end of 
treatment. No mortality was found after 28 days of treatment and no significant 
changes in body weight and hematology profile, except for low platelet count. 
High amounts of uric acid, AST, ALT and alkaline phosphatase were found in the 
biochemical analysis. Histological investigation of the heart and lungs detected 
no alterations except for the kidney, liver and brain tissues. In conclusion, 
repeated administration of kratom decoction provided some evidence of toxicity 
in the kidney and liver with no occurrence of mortality.;2;Mitragynine, an analgesic alkaloid from the plant Mitragyna speciosa (kratom), offers a safer alternative to clinical opioids such as morphine, owing to its 
more favorable side effect profile. Although kratom has been traditionally used 
for stimulation and pain management in Southeast Asia, the mitragynine 
biosynthesis pathway has remained elusive. We embarked on a search for 
mitragynine biosynthetic genes from the transcriptomes of kratom and other 
members of the Rubiaceae family. We studied their functions in vitro and 
in vivo. Our investigations led to the identification of several reductases and 
an enol methyltransferase that forms a new clade within the SABATH 
methyltransferase family. Furthermore, we discovered a methyltransferase from 
Hamelia patens (firebush), which catalyzes the final step. With the tryptamine 
4-hydroxylase from the psychedelic mushroom Psilocybe cubensis, we accomplished 
the four-step biosynthesis for mitragynine and its stereoisomer, speciogynine in 
both yeast and Escherichia coli when supplied with tryptamine and secologanin. 
Although we have yet to pinpoint the authentic hydroxylase and methyltransferase 
in kratom, our discovery completes the mitragynine biosynthesis. Through these 
breakthroughs, we achieved the microbial biosynthesis of kratom opioids for the 
first time. The remarkable enzyme promiscuity suggests the possibility of 
generating derivatives and analogs of kratom opioids in heterologous systems.;
